# ML-Based-Ammonia-Converter-Leakage-Detector-and-Trip-Predictor-For-Improving-Safety

Abstract— An Ammonia converter is a crucial and sophisticated vessel in an ammonia plant, where Ammonia gas produced by reacting with Hydrogen and Nitrogen. It is highly recommended to ensure maximum safety for continuous process without shutdown the ammonia converter. Machine learning based safety system enhances the plant safety, minimizes downtime, and reduces operational costs in an ammonia plant. We proposed a machine learning model with Naive Bayes algorithm which is a supervised machine learning. To train the model, we use real time operational data collected from an ammonia plant. The data will be processed and analyzed to train the model with train-test ratio of 80:20. We identify the best parameter for the algorithm using GridSearchCV and five-fold cross validation and tune the hyperparameter for this model. The highest accuracy score of 93.33% gained by this model. The model detect leakage and early predict abnormal condition of the ammonia converter which improved the safety of the Ammonia plant.

Keywords— Machine Learning, Naive Bayes, Ammonia Converter, Abnormal condition detector.

Citation— Mritunjoy Sarker, Md. Mahbubur Rahman, [MD. Shameem Ahammed](https://sites.google.com/view/shameem3e), Sourav Sarker, Zinia Jahan, and Md. Shake Farid Uddin “ML Based Ammonia Converter Leakage Detector and Trip Predictor For Improving Safety”, 2024 International Conference on Recent Progresses in Science, Engineering and Technology (ICRPSET), Rajshahi, Bangladesh, 2024, pp. 1-6. [https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRPSET64863.2024.10955943](https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRPSET64863.2024.10955943)
